# Tue, Jun 14, 2022:

So, I backed up all the files I had on my previous install of ArchLinux (Google Drive), and the rest was purged. I reformatted the disk on my laptop and did a clean Arch install. I want to organize my files better this time, and not kid myself with too much of that 'ricing' bs. I'm 20 years old, and I'm about to be attending a difficult tech school which will launch me into a real CS-related career (assuming I don't fail out). I want to take myself a bit more seriously than those r/unixporn guys. Here's the general philosophy: Organization and efficiency can't be compromized for aesthetic reasons. I want to make sure I document EVERY step of my system's configuration, so that I can have a good learning reference and so that reproducing what I've done is easier. linux-rice-notes was pretty good, but I really want to document everything from hacky command syntax to sound configuration to programming (not this file, btw). And when it comes to efficiency, I should try to keep unneccessary software away. Eg. Why use neofetch? I would prefer to use software that's simple to understand, something that I can look at the source code and be like "I at least kind of understand how this works". I want to be able to look at my notes and understand where all of the config files are stored and where the binaries are and what web services it connects to and what hardware it interfaces with. This should help me in school and in my future career.

Since I've last installed the operating system, Arch finally got an install script. I think it was necessary. Other distros, just as minimal as Arch, were less of a hassle to install. And, as I've come to learn, Arch is very fast and versatile. There's a reason the Steam Deck runs Arch, and I'm glad that sort of bleeding-edge efficiency is more accessible now. However, there's value in understanding how chroot, disk partitioning, and bootloaders work. Though, I would be lying if I said I was satisfied with my current understanding of these concepts.


# Thu Jun 16 16:51:56 2022:

I'm going to multiplex terminals with tmux because it should be useful in no-gui environments (spending time solving problems in such environments should be good for me). For example, it would be nice to write notes in this file as well as my how-to-do-stuff file. I am also disabling the root account (not before giving myself (eliot), sudo access. I may want to ssh into my laptop, and you never know how somebody might get the root password (I DO store it in a file). If they get MY (eliot) password, they won't be able to access my system as quietly. I'll set up sudo logging. If an attacker uses `su root` on the other hand, they can do what they want despite sudo logging. I also want to learn to set up kernel livepatch and auto-updates at specific times. This is good practice. My previous arch setup died because of a combination of software bloat, misunderstanding of dependencies, and a lack of system updates.
